---
layout: post
title: "C9 Modules"
description: ""
category: programming ruby
tags: [programming ruby, 学习]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Chapter 9 Modules

1. Modules provide a namespace and prevent name clashes.
2. Modules implement the **mixin** facility.

## Namespaces

Modules define a namespace, a sandbox in which your methods and constants can play without having to worry about being stepped on by other methods and constants. 

{% highlight ruby %}
module Trig  PI = 3.141592654  def Trig.sin(x)    # .. end  def Trig.cos(x)    # ..  end
end

module Moral  VERY_BAD = 0  BAD =1  def Moral.sin(badness)    # ...
  endend
{% endhighlight %}

these module methods are defined just like class methods. `Module.method`

{% highlight ruby %}
require 'trig'require 'moral'y = Trig.sin(Trig::PI/4)wrongdoing = Moral.sin(Moral::VERY_BAD)
{% endhighlight %}

## Mixins

Modules eliminate the need for multiple inheritance, providing a facility called a mixin.

A module can’t have instances, because a module isn’t a class. 

you can include a module within a class definition. When this happens, all the module’s instance methods are suddenly available as methods in the class as well. They get `mixed in`. In fact, mixed-in modules effectively behave as superclasses.

{% highlight ruby %}
module Debug
  def who_am_i?
    "#{self.class.name} {\##{self.id}): #{self.to_s}"
  end
end
classs Phonograph
  include Debug
  #…
end
class EightTrack
  include Debug
  #…
end
ph = Phonograph.new("West End Blues")
et = EightTrack.new("Surrealistic Pillow")

ph.who_am_i?
et.who_am_i?
{% endhighlight %}

The Ruby include statement simply makes a reference to a named module. If that module is in a separate file, you must use require (or its less commonly used cousin, load) to drag that file in before using include.

a Ruby include does not simply copy the module’s instance methods into the class. Instead, it makes a reference from the class to the included module. If multiple classes include that module, they’ll all point to the same thing. If you change the definition of a method within a module, even while your program is running, all classes that include that module will exhibit the new behavior.


{% highlight ruby %}
class Song
  include Comparable
  def initialize(name, artist, duration)
    @name = name
    @artist = artist
    @duration = duration
  end
  def <=>(other)
    self.duration <=> self.duration
  end
end
 #by include Comparable module and def <=>, you also have <, >, =, <=, >=
 
song1 = Song.new("My Way", "Sinatra", 225)
song2 = Song.new("Bicylops", "Fleck", 260)song1 <=> song2-> -1
song1 < song2 -> true
song1 == song1 -> true
song1 > song2 -> false
{% endhighlight %}

### Iterators and the Enumerable Module

`each` -> `map`, `include?`, `find_all?`

`<=>`  -> `min`, `max`, `sort`

### Composing Modules

{% highlight ruby %}
[ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ].inject {|v,n| v+n } -> 15( 'a'..'m').inject {|v,n| v+n } -> "abcdefghijklm"
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight ruby %}
class VowelFinder
  include Enumerable
  def initialize(string)
    @string = string
  end
  def each
    @string.scan(/[aeiou]/) do |vowel|
      yield vowel
    end
  end
end
vf = VowelFinder.new("the quick brown fox jumped")
vf.inject {|v, n| v + n }  ->  "euiooue"
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight ruby %}
module Summable  def sum    inject {|v,n| v+n }  endendclass Array  include Summableendclass Range  include Summableendclass VowelFinder  include Summableend[ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ].sum → 15( 'a'..'m').sum → "abcdefghijklm"vf = VowelFinder.new("the quick brown fox jumped") vf.sum → "euiooue"
{% endhighlight %}

### Instance Variables in Mixins

the first mention of an @-prefixed variable creates the instance variable in the current object, self.

{% highlight ruby %}
module Observable  def observers    @observer_list ||= []  end  def add_observer(obj)    observers << obj  end  def notify_observers
    observers.each {|o| o.update }  end
end
{% endhighlight %}

However, this behavior exposes us to a risk. A mixin’s instance variables can clash with those of the host class or with those of other mixins.

At runtime, this program will go wrong in some hard-to-diagnose ways.

{% highlight ruby %}
class TelescopeScheduler
  # other classes can register to get notifications
  # when the schedule changesinclude Observabledef initialize  @observer_list = [] # folks with telescope time, conflict  end  def add_viewer(viewer)    @observer_list << viewer  end  # ...
end
{% endhighlight %}

For the most part, mixin modules don’t try to carry their own instance data around— they use accessors to retrieve data from the client object.  

But if you need to create a mixin that has to have its own state, ensure that the instance variables have unique names to distinguish them from any other mixins in the system (like name with module's name)

he module could use a module-level hash, indexed by the current object ID, to store instance-specific datawithout using Ruby instance variables.
{% highlight ruby %}
module Test  State = {}  def state=(value)    State[id] = value  end  def state    state[id]  end
endclass Client  include Testendc1 = Client.newc2 = Client.newc1.state = 'cat'c2.state = 'dog'c1.state -> "cat"
c2.state -> "dog"{% endhighlight %} 
### Resolving Abmiguous Method Names
The answer is that Ruby looks first in the immediate class of an object, then in the mixins included into that class, and then in superclasses and their mixins. If a class has multiple modules mixed in, the last one included is searched first.
## Including Other Files

{% highlight ruby %}
load 'filename.rb'
require 'filename'
{% endhighlight %}Local variables in a loaded or required file are not propagated to the scope that loads or requires them.
{% highlight ruby %}
 # included.rb
a=1
def b
  2end

 a = "cat"
 b = "dog"
 require 'included'
 a   -> "cat"
 b   -> "dog"
 b() -> 2{% endhighlight %}
require has additional functionality: it can load shared binary libraries. 
Both routines accept relative and absolute paths.
`$:` current load path
require is an executable statement—it may be inside an if statement, or it may include a string that was just built. 
The **search path** can be altered at runtime as well. Just add the directory you want to the array `$:`.
{% highlight ruby %}
5.times do |i| 
       File.open("temp.rb","w") do |f|         f.puts "module Temp"         f.puts "  def Temp.var"         f.puts "    #{i}"         f.puts "  end"         f.puts "end"        end        load "temp.rb" # every time load change        puts Temp.var    end{% endhighlight %}